# Pre-Launch-Forecaster
Purpose - This project presents an approach to automate the pre-launch of products analysis process using the Data Science technology and Machine Learning with TensorFlow library from PythonTM language. The actual analysis process takes time, effort and money which delays the launch of the product while the automated analysis was made to reduce these issues to benefit the company’s shareholders.

Design and Methodology – The project aims to develop a Machine Learning model to learn from the actual analysis processes and come up with the key factors of the product’s success in the market. The Data Science tools (Pandas, Numpy, Matplotlib) are used to get the appropriate data in which the datasets are going to be cleaned, manipulated, and visualized to determine the significance of each parameter on the target variables. Using TensorFlow and PythonTM language the model is developed, adjusted, and evaluated to enhance its accuracy of predicting the factors like demands, customer satisfaction and target market.

Findings - Based on the proposed research methodology; developing the model requires the data to be correlated with the target variables. The datasets about the characteristics of the product and its success factors in the market after the launch from the same company and similar products in the market are analyzed and fed to the model to be able to find a relation between the characteristics, pricing, and market of the product with the demand and customer satisfaction to be able to predict them accordingly. Also, the datasets about different markets status are analyzed by the model to predict the best market to be targeted by the product.

Practical Implications – The project provides time efficiency to the data analysts and business analysts in the company during the pre-launch process. It also reduces the effort of searching and analyzing the appropriate data needed to predict the success factors of the product by the analysts since the model has the data cleaned and analyzed. Automating such a process in large companies is very cost-effective for the shareholders and the model can be updated and scaled to meet more needed features with less error than humans.
